README.md, before:

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries.svg?kill_cache=1)](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/releases/latest)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/tree/master)
[![Docker Cloud Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/cloud/build/redislabs/redistimeseries.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/redislabs/redistimeseries/builds/)
[![Language grade: C/C++](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/cpp/g/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/context:cpp)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries)

# RedisTimeSeries
[![Forum](https://img.shields.io/badge/Forum-RedisTimeSeries-blue)](https://forum.redislabs.com/c/modules/redistimeseries)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/697882427875393627?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/KExRgMb)

RedisTimeSeries is a Redis Module adding a Time Series data structure to Redis.

## Features
Read more about the v1.0 GA features [here](https://redislabs.com/blog/redistimeseries-ga-making-4th-dimension-truly-immersive/).
- High volume inserts, low latency reads
- Query by start time and end-time
- Aggregated queries (Min, Max, Avg, Sum, Range, Count, First, Last, STD.P, STD.S, Var.P, Var.S) for any time bucket
- Configurable maximum retention period
- Downsampling/Compaction - automatically updated aggregated timeseries
- Secondary index - each time series has labels (field value pairs) which will allows to query by labels

## Using with other tools metrics tools
In the [RedisTimeSeries](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries) organization you can
find projects that help you integrate RedisTimeSeries with other tools, including:

1. [Prometheus](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/prometheus-redistimeseries-adapter) - read/write adapter to use RedisTimeSeries as backend db.
2. [Grafana](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/grafana-redis-datasource) - using the [Redis Data Source](https://redislabs.com/blog/introducing-the-redis-data-source-plug-in-for-grafana/).
3. [Telegraph](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/telegraf)
4. StatsD, Graphite exports using graphite protocol.

## Memory model
A time series is a linked list of memory chunks.
Each chunk has a predefined size of samples.
Each sample is a tuple of the time and the value of 128 bits,
64 bits for the timestamp and 64 bits for the value.

## Setup

You can either get RedisTimeSeries setup in a Docker container or on your own machine.

### Docker
To quickly try out RedisTimeSeries, launch an instance using docker:
```sh
docker run -p 6379:6379 -it --rm redislabs/redistimeseries
```

### Build and Run it yourself

You can also build and run RedisTimeSeries on your own machine.

Major Linux distributions as well as macOS are supported.

#### Requirements

First, clone the RedisTimeSeries repository from git:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries.git
```

Then, to install required build artifacts, invoke the following:

```
cd RedisTimeSeries
make setup
```
Or you can install required dependencies manually listed in [system-setup.py](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/blob/master/system-setup.py).

If ```make``` is not yet available, the following commands are equivalent:

```
./deps/readies/bin/getpy2
./system-setup.py
```

Note that ```system-setup.py``` **will install various packages on your system** using the native package manager and pip. This requires root permissions (i.e. sudo) on Linux.

If you prefer to avoid that, you can:

* Review system-setup.py and install packages manually,
* Utilize a Python virtual environment,
* Use Docker with the ```--volume``` option to create an isolated build environment.

#### Build

```bash
make build
```

Binary artifacts are placed under the ```bin``` directory.

#### Run

In your redis-server run: `loadmodule bin/redistimeseries.so`

For more information about modules, go to the [redis official documentation](https://redis.io/topics/modules-intro).

## Give it a try

After you setup RedisTimeSeries, you can interact with it using redis-cli.

Here we'll create a time series representing sensor temperature measurements. 
After you create the time series, you can send temperature measurements.
Then you can query the data for a time range on some aggregation rule.

### With `redis-cli`
```sh
$ redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.CREATE temperature:3:11 RETENTION 60 LABELS sensor_id 2 area_id 32
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.ADD temperature:3:11 1548149181 30
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.ADD temperature:3:11 1548149191 42
OK
127.0.0.1:6379>  TS.RANGE temperature:3:11 1548149180 1548149210 AGGREGATION avg 5
1) 1) (integer) 1548149180
   2) "30"
2) 1) (integer) 1548149190
   2) "42"
```

### Client libraries

Some languages have client libraries that provide support for RedisTimeSeries commands:

| Project | Language | License | Author | URL |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | ------ | --- |
| JRedisTimeSeries | Java | BSD-3 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/JRedisTimeSeries/) |
| redis-modules-java | Java | Apache-2 | [dengliming](https://github.com/dengliming) | [Github](https://github.com/dengliming/redis-modules-java) |
| redistimeseries-go | Go | Apache-2 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/redistimeseries-go) |
| redistimeseries-py | Python | BSD-3 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/redistimeseries-py) |
| NRedisTimeSeries | .NET | BSD-3 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/NRedisTimeSeries) |
| phpRedisTimeSeries | PHP | MIT | [Alessandro Balasco](https://github.com/palicao) | [Github](https://github.com/palicao/phpRedisTimeSeries) |
| redis-time-series | JavaScript | MIT | [Rafa Campoy](https://github.com/averias) | [Github](https://github.com/averias/redis-time-series) |
| redistimeseries-js | JavaScript | MIT | [Milos Nikolovski](https://github.com/nikolovskimilos) | [Github](https://github.com/nikolovskimilos/redistimeseries-js) |
| redis_ts | Rust | BSD-3 | [Thomas Profelt](https://github.com/tompro) | [Github](https://github.com/tompro/redis_ts) |
| redistimeseries | Ruby | MIT | [Eaden McKee](https://github.com/eadz) | [Github](https://github.com/eadz/redistimeseries) |
| redis-time-series | Ruby | MIT | [Matt Duszynski](https://github.com/dzunk) | [Github](https://github.com/dzunk/redis-time-series) |

## Tests
Tests are written in python using the [rmtest](https://github.com/RedisLabs/rmtest) library.
```
$ cd src
$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt # optional, use virtualenv
$ make tests
```

## Documentation
Read the docs at http://redistimeseries.io

## Mailing List / Forum
Got questions? Feel free to ask at the [RedisTimeSeries forum](https://forum.redislabs.com/c/modules/redistimeseries).

## License
Redis Source Available License Agreement, see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Added support for binary data
The RedisTimeSeries API is cool, but makes a strong presumption on the
fact that the timestamped data is of type double, that allows simple
maths on aggregation functions. All the rest of the API (range
queries, labelling, downsampling, rules ... ) is of interest for
non-scalar data.
This commit adds support for binary data. In can coexist with
scalar data, so that the API remains 100% compatible.
Just like scalar time series, binary time series can be created wihh
TS.CREATE or TS.ADD, just by adding the 'BLOB' keyword in the command.

Aggregation is supported but obviously, performing maths on blob
is nonsense, so that only aggregation types of 'count', 'first'
and 'last' are allowed.

Persistence on disk is also supported.

The testsuite has been completed with the test of the new
features, and passes 100%

Signed-off-by: Thierry Bultel <thierry.bultel@iot.bzh>

README.md, after:

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries.svg?kill_cache=1)](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/releases/latest)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/tree/master)
[![Docker Cloud Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/cloud/build/redislabs/redistimeseries.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/redislabs/redistimeseries/builds/)
[![Language grade: C/C++](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/cpp/g/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/context:cpp)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries)

# RedisTimeSeries
[![Forum](https://img.shields.io/badge/Forum-RedisTimeSeries-blue)](https://forum.redislabs.com/c/modules/redistimeseries)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/697882427875393627?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/KExRgMb)

RedisTimeSeries is a Redis Module adding a Time Series data structure to Redis.

## Features
Read more about the v1.0 GA features [here](https://redislabs.com/blog/redistimeseries-ga-making-4th-dimension-truly-immersive/).
- High volume inserts, low latency reads
- Query by start time and end-time
- Aggregated queries (Min, Max, Avg, Sum, Range, Count, First, Last, STD.P, STD.S, Var.P, Var.S) for any time bucket
- Configurable maximum retention period
- Downsampling/Compaction - automatically updated aggregated timeseries
- Secondary index - each time series has labels (field value pairs) which will allows to query by labels

## Using with other tools metrics tools
In the [RedisTimeSeries](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries) organization you can
find projects that help you integrate RedisTimeSeries with other tools, including:

1. [Prometheus](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/prometheus-redistimeseries-adapter) - read/write adapter to use RedisTimeSeries as backend db.
2. [Grafana](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/grafana-redis-datasource) - using the [Redis Data Source](https://redislabs.com/blog/introducing-the-redis-data-source-plug-in-for-grafana/).
3. [Telegraph](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/telegraf)
4. StatsD, Graphite exports using graphite protocol.

## Memory model
A time series is a linked list of memory chunks.
Each chunk has a predefined size of samples.
Each sample is a tuple of the time and the value of 128 bits,
64 bits for the timestamp and 64 bits for the value.

## Setup

You can either get RedisTimeSeries setup in a Docker container or on your own machine.

### Docker
To quickly try out RedisTimeSeries, launch an instance using docker:
```sh
docker run -p 6379:6379 -it --rm redislabs/redistimeseries
```

### Build and Run it yourself

You can also build and run RedisTimeSeries on your own machine.

Major Linux distributions as well as macOS are supported.

#### Requirements

First, clone the RedisTimeSeries repository from git:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries.git
```

Then, to install required build artifacts, invoke the following:

```
cd RedisTimeSeries
make setup
```
Or you can install required dependencies manually listed in [system-setup.py](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/blob/master/system-setup.py).

If ```make``` is not yet available, the following commands are equivalent:

```
./deps/readies/bin/getpy2
./system-setup.py
```

Note that ```system-setup.py``` **will install various packages on your system** using the native package manager and pip. This requires root permissions (i.e. sudo) on Linux.

If you prefer to avoid that, you can:

* Review system-setup.py and install packages manually,
* Utilize a Python virtual environment,
* Use Docker with the ```--volume``` option to create an isolated build environment.

#### Build

```bash
make build
```

Binary artifacts are placed under the ```bin``` directory.

#### Run

In your redis-server run: `loadmodule bin/redistimeseries.so`

For more information about modules, go to the [redis official documentation](https://redis.io/topics/modules-intro).

## Give it a try

After you setup RedisTimeSeries, you can interact with it using redis-cli.

Here we'll create a time series representing sensor temperature measurements. 
After you create the time series, you can send temperature measurements.
Then you can query the data for a time range on some aggregation rule.

### With `redis-cli`
```sh
$ redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.CREATE temperature:3:11 RETENTION 60 LABELS sensor_id 2 area_id 32
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.ADD temperature:3:11 1548149181 30
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.ADD temperature:3:11 1548149191 42
OK
127.0.0.1:6379>  TS.RANGE temperature:3:11 1548149180 1548149210 AGGREGATION avg 5
1) 1) (integer) 1548149180
   2) "30"
2) 1) (integer) 1548149190
   2) "42"
```

It is also possible to store binary data (with redis-cli, we illustrate this with character strings).
For doing this, simply add the **BLOB** keyword when creating the key.
Since creating the key is also feasible with TS.ADD, the **BLOB** keyword can be added as an option to this command, too.

Aggregation works with binary data as well, but obviously, only types of "last" and "first" are supported in this case.

```sh
$ redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.CREATE blob1 BLOB
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.ADD blob1 * value1
(integer) 1600765694862
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.ADD blob1 * value2
(integer) 1600765708510
127.0.0.1:6379> TS.RANGE blob1 - +
1) 1) (integer) 1600765694862
   2) "value1"
2) 1) (integer) 1600765708510
   2) "value2"

```

### Client libraries

Some languages have client libraries that provide support for RedisTimeSeries commands:

| Project | Language | License | Author | URL |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | ------ | --- |
| JRedisTimeSeries | Java | BSD-3 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/JRedisTimeSeries/) |
| redis-modules-java | Java | Apache-2 | [dengliming](https://github.com/dengliming) | [Github](https://github.com/dengliming/redis-modules-java) |
| redistimeseries-go | Go | Apache-2 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/redistimeseries-go) |
| redistimeseries-py | Python | BSD-3 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/redistimeseries-py) |
| NRedisTimeSeries | .NET | BSD-3 | [RedisLabs](https://redislabs.com/) | [Github](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/NRedisTimeSeries) |
| phpRedisTimeSeries | PHP | MIT | [Alessandro Balasco](https://github.com/palicao) | [Github](https://github.com/palicao/phpRedisTimeSeries) |
| redis-time-series | JavaScript | MIT | [Rafa Campoy](https://github.com/averias) | [Github](https://github.com/averias/redis-time-series) |
| redistimeseries-js | JavaScript | MIT | [Milos Nikolovski](https://github.com/nikolovskimilos) | [Github](https://github.com/nikolovskimilos/redistimeseries-js) |
| redis_ts | Rust | BSD-3 | [Thomas Profelt](https://github.com/tompro) | [Github](https://github.com/tompro/redis_ts) |
| redistimeseries | Ruby | MIT | [Eaden McKee](https://github.com/eadz) | [Github](https://github.com/eadz/redistimeseries) |
| redis-time-series | Ruby | MIT | [Matt Duszynski](https://github.com/dzunk) | [Github](https://github.com/dzunk/redis-time-series) |

## Tests
Tests are written in python using the [rmtest](https://github.com/RedisLabs/rmtest) library.
```
$ cd src
$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt # optional, use virtualenv
$ make tests
```

## Documentation
Read the docs at http://redistimeseries.io

## Mailing List / Forum
Got questions? Feel free to ask at the [RedisTimeSeries forum](https://forum.redislabs.com/c/modules/redistimeseries).

## License
Redis Source Available License Agreement, see [LICENSE](LICENSE)
